Rookys

5x5 board
Each side has 1 King in the middle and 4 Rookys in the other side squares
Goal: Win by checkmating your opponent's King

At the start of the game, each Rooky cannot move
On your turn, you can either move or upgrade
An upgrade selects one Rooky and one of its 4 valid Rook-movement direction and permanantly increases how far it is able to move in that direction.
Movement cannot jump over pieces or land on the same square as one of your own pieces
A move that ends on the square of an opponent piece captures that piece (it is removed from the board)
You King is in check if an opponent piece could capture it in one move
It isn't valid to end your turn with your King in check
Stalemate condition 1: King not in check but no valid turn (move or upgrade)
Lose condition: King in check and no valid turn (checkmated)
Stalemate condition 2: two consecutive move (non-upgrade) turns in which both players repeated a previous turn (i.e. the board is in exactly the same state as it was in a previous turn and they made the same move) [To track this, hash the state-move combo; when a player upgrades, previous states are imposible so the hash-cache can be cleared.]

Variants:
1. Custom board dimension
1a. Square (NXN)
1b. Rectangle (NXM)
2. Custom Rooky arrangment
2a. R Rookies
2b. Custom Rooky positions
2bI. Random from king vs Full random vs Manual
2bII. Mirrored vs Nonmirrored
2bIII. Restricted to n rows and m columns from the king
3. Custom King(s)
3a. K kings
3b. Custom King postions
3bI. Corners vs Random vs Manual
3bII. Mirrored vs Reversed vs Any
3c. King movement: lateral vs diagonal vs both
3d. King upgradable
4. Bishy pieces (move daigonal instead of lateral)
4a-b. Same variants as Rookys
5. Shrinking board: permenantly remove inactive edge rows/columns from the board at the start of each turn
5a. Chill: "inactive" mean cannot be reached by any piece on the board in 1 move
5b. Agressive: "inactive" means unoccupied
6. Reincarnation: third turn option: restore a captured piece (with upgrades reset to 0) onto your starting row
7. Wrap-around
7a. rows wrap
7b. columns wrap (then there would be no edge rows so each player's "start row" would be otherwise fixed and marked)